Question 1. Write short note on CPU scheduling algorithms?
Ans:
	CPU Scheduling is a process of determining which process will own CPU for execution while another process is on hold. The main task of CPU scheduling is to make sure that whenever the CPU remains idle, the OS at least select one of the processes available in the ready queue for execution. The selection process will be carried out by the CPU scheduler. It selects one of the processes in memory that are ready for execution.


	
Question 2. What is preemptive vs non preemptive scheduling algos?
Ans:
	Preemptive Scheduling
	In Preemptive Scheduling, the tasks are mostly assigned with their priorities. Sometimes it is important to run a task with a higher priority before another lower priority task, even if the lower priority task is still running. The lower priority task holds for some time and resumes when the higher priority task finishes its execution.

	Non-Preemptive Scheduling
	In this type of scheduling method, the CPU has been allocated to a specific process. The process that keeps the CPU busy will release the CPU either by switching context or terminating. It is the only method that can be used for various hardware platforms. That's because it doesn't need special hardware (for example, a timer) like preemptive scheduling.
	
Question 3. Write the best and/or practical scheduling algo, with reason ?
Ans:
	FCFS
	First Come First Serve (FCFS) is an operating system scheduling algorithm that automatically executes queued requests and processes in order of their arrival. It is the easiest and simplest CPU scheduling algorithm. In this type of algorithm, processes which requests the CPU first get the CPU allocation first. This is managed with a FIFO queue. The full form of FCFS is First Come First Serve.
	
	SJF
	Shortest Job First (SJF) is an algorithm in which the process having the smallest execution time is chosen for the next execution. This scheduling method can be preemptive or non-preemptive. It significantly reduces the average waiting time for other processes awaiting execution. The full form of SJF is Shortest Job First.
	Round Robin
	The name of this algorithm comes from the round-robin principle, where each person gets an equal share of something in turns. It is the oldest, simplest scheduling algorithm, which is mostly used for multitasking.
